docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture Overview

VinSight follows a modern **Client-Server Architecture** with a **Proxy Layer** for cookie handling and a micro-batching background worker for market alerts.

## 1. System Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[User Browser]
    FE[Next.js Frontend]
    Proxy[Next.js Rewrites Proxy]
    BE[FastAPI Backend]
    DB[(PostgreSQL / SQLite)]
    AI1[Groq API]
    AI2[Gemini API]
    AV[Alpha Vantage API]
    Data[yfinance]
    Mail[SMTP Server]
    Worker[Cloud Run Job: Market Watcher]

    User -->|HTTP| FE
    FE -->|/api/* requests| Proxy
    Proxy -->|Forward + Cookies| BE
    BE -->|SQLAlchemy| DB
    BE -->|AI Conviction| AI1
    BE -->|Search & Scrape| Web[Serper/DDG + MotleyFool]
    BE -->|News + Sentiment| AV
    BE -->|Stock Data (v9.1 Coordinated)| Data
    BE -->|Trigger Alerts| Mail
    Worker -->|Check Price Targets| BE
```

## 2. Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Frontend** | Next.js 14/15, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, Framer Motion |
| **Backend** | Python 3.11, FastAPI, Pydantic, SQLAlchemy |
| **Database** | Cloud SQL (PostgreSQL 15) for Prod; SQLite for Local |
| **AI Models** | Groq (Llama 3.3 70B), Gemini 1.5 Pro, Alpha Vantage |
| **Email** | FAST-Mail (SMTP/Gmail) |
| **Infrastructure** | Google Cloud Run, Cloud Scheduler, Secret Manager |

## 3. Core Engine Logic
- **[VinSight Scoring Engine](./SCORING_ENGINE.md)**: Detailed breakdown of the Dynamic Benchmark Model (v9.0), Weighting profiles, and Vetos.
- **AI vs. Algo Separation**: The system decouples the **LLM's qualitative reasoning** (top briefing) from the **algorithmic quantitative baseline** (bottom breakdown), providing users with both objective metrics and subjective analyst thesis.

## 4. Infrastructure & Security
- **Computing**: Scaling-to-zero Cloud Run containers for cost efficiency.
- **Secrets**: Zero-knowledge credential storage via Google Secret Manager.
- **Alerts**: Background cron job (Worker) triggered every 5 minutes during US market hours.

## 5. Detailed Technical Documentation
- **[Security & Compliance](./SECURITY.md)**: OWASP compliance, Encryption audits, and Rotation schedules.
- **[Maintenance & Incident Log](./MAINTENANCE_LOG.md)**: Fix history and Root Cause Analyses.
- **[Deployment Guide](./DEPLOY.md)**: Instructions for pushing to Google Cloud.
- **[Setup Guide](./SETUP.md)**: Local development environment configuration.

Commit message:

v9.5.0: High-Performance Progressive Loading, Institutional Conviction Index, and Search UI Enhancements

docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture Overview

VinSight follows a modern **Client-Server Architecture** with a **Proxy Layer** for cookie handling and a micro-batching background worker for market alerts.

## 1. System Diagram

```mermaid
graph TD
    User[User Browser]
    FE[Next.js Frontend]
    Proxy[Next.js Rewrites Proxy]
    BE[FastAPI Backend]
    DB[(PostgreSQL / SQLite)]
    AI1[Groq API]
    AI2[Gemini API]
    AV[Alpha Vantage API]
    Data[yfinance]
    Mail[SMTP Server]
    Worker[Cloud Run Job: Market Watcher]

    User -->|HTTP| FE
    FE -->|/api/* requests| Proxy
    Proxy -->|Forward + Cookies| BE
    BE -->|SQLAlchemy| DB
    BE -->|AI Conviction| AI1
    BE -->|Search & Scrape| Web[Serper/DDG + MotleyFool]
    BE -->|News + Sentiment| AV
    BE -->|Stock Data (v9.1 Coordinated)| Data
    BE -->|Trigger Alerts| Mail
    Worker -->|Check Price Targets| BE
```

## 2. Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Frontend** | Next.js 14/15, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, Framer Motion |
| **Backend** | Python 3.11, FastAPI, Pydantic, SQLAlchemy |
| **Database** | Cloud SQL (PostgreSQL 15) for Prod; SQLite for Local |
| **AI Models** | Groq (Llama 3.3 70B), Gemini 1.5 Pro, Alpha Vantage |
| **Email** | FAST-Mail (SMTP/Gmail) |
| **Infrastructure** | Google Cloud Run, Cloud Scheduler, Secret Manager |

## 3. Core Engine Logic
- **[VinSight Scoring Engine](./SCORING_ENGINE.md)**: Detailed breakdown of the Dynamic Benchmark Model (v9.0), Weighting profiles, and Vetos.
- **Tri-Layer Signal Synthesis**: v9.5 introduces a three-layer signal model where the **Institutional Conviction Index** sits atop the **AI Reasoning Layer** and the **Algorithmic Baseline**.
- **Progressive Hydration Pattern**: To optimize page performance, the system uses a dual-engine fetch strategy. Light mathematical data (Algo Baseline) is prioritized for immediate rendering, while heavy LLM reasoning (AI Layer) is lazy-loaded in the background without blocking the UI.
- **AI vs. Algo Separation**: The system decouples the **LLM's qualitative reasoning** (top briefing) from the **algorithmic quantitative baseline** (bottom breakdown), providing users with both objective metrics and subjective analyst thesis.

## 4. Infrastructure & Security
- **Computing**: Scaling-to-zero Cloud Run containers for cost efficiency.
- **Secrets**: Zero-knowledge credential storage via Google Secret Manager.
- **Alerts**: Background cron job (Worker) triggered every 5 minutes during US market hours.

## 5. Detailed Technical Documentation
- **[Security & Compliance](./SECURITY.md)**: OWASP compliance, Encryption audits, and Rotation schedules.
- **[Maintenance & Incident Log](./MAINTENANCE_LOG.md)**: Fix history and Root Cause Analyses.
- **[Deployment Guide](./DEPLOY.md)**: Instructions for pushing to Google Cloud.
- **[Setup Guide](./SETUP.md)**: Local development environment configuration.
